In this video I'll demonstrate how to create a vm a fast data store.
So here I am in the Vee's for a web client and in my last video I actually created a software ice Gazi
initiator for this particular ESX I host.
So here's my software because the initiator.
And through this software I suppose the initiator.
I have a line that's available and having a LUN is the key starting point if I'm going to create a data
store on VM FS I need that one.
So I'm going to go ahead and click on datasource here.
And I'm going to click on the little plus icon to create myself a new VM a fast data store.
And at this point I'll name the data store.
I'll just call it VM FSMO.
And what I'm doing is I'm choosing a lane.
So a lawn is just this big chunk of raw unformatted disk space that is available on my eyes because
the storage array and my host can communicate with that nice cosy storage array using the ice Gazi software
initiator that I created in the last video.
Now I will choose the VM FS version.
So if all of my hosts are going to be ESX I 6.5 I'm just going to go ahead and go with VM FSX if I still
have some ESX size 6 or even older versions of VSX I hosts then I'll go with the IMF has five.
All of my hosts are 6 5.
I'm going to go with VM FSX and what I'm going to say is OK on this particular line.
Do we want to use all of the space available on that line or do I want to say hey I'm just going to
create a data store that is 15 gigs or something smaller.
I'm just going to use all of the space on that particular line.
And that I'm going to go ahead and hit Next here and what's going to actually happen in this scenario
is a new data store is going to be created.
That space that line is going to be formatted with the VM FS file system.
So now I've got this VM half as demo data store available to this particular ESX I host.
I've got a bunch of space available on it and I can start to create virtual machines and store them
on that data store.
Now here's the million dollar question I've created this data store and I did everything on this particular
ESX host here.
What about this host.
We need shared storage for things like Wii motion Well look at that.
Isn't that magic.
The data store just simply appeared on this other ESX host.
How is that possible.
Well the other ESX host also is configured with a software I scuzzy adapter and that other software
I scuzzy adapter is also configured to query the same storage array.
So every so often it's going to do its own little rescan and it's going to detect any new BMF has volumes
and they're going to just be available to this particular host.
Now I have some options I can do things like masking if I don't want to make a particular datastore
available to every host I can go into my storage system and control that.
But I just wanted to show you that by default both hosts are connected to that storage array.
Both hosts get access to that data store.
I don't have to go to each individual host and mount that data store.
If I'm done with my data store what I'll do is all right click it and I can choose to number one either
unmount.
So I'm going to go ahead and unmount this particular data store.
And what you're doing when you unmount data stores you're saying something like hey from this particular
host I do not need access to that data store and that's going to say OK.
So if I refresh here now this host no longer is going to have access to the VMA fast demo data store
and you can see here that the volume is now unmounted.
So this particular host no longer has access to it.
This host still does.
Now the other thing that I could do is I code right click that data store and I could actually delete
the data store.
What you need to be aware of in this case is any data that is on that data store is going to be permanently
deleted.
All the data on that data source is going to be gone when I delete that data store.
So if I choose to delete a data store I am permanently destroying that data store and all of the data
that is contained within it.
And now the data store is gone.
If I go back to this other host that is or should be gone there as well.
So that's how we create a vm a fast data store.
What you're essentially doing is you are taking a LUN that's being presented by some kind of storage
system formatting it with the VM FS file system and making it available to your ESX hosts.
So that virtual machine files can be stored on it.